let's uh let's get the party started i i
want to give some you know kind of quick
introductions and let's uh let's get to
the content give the people what they
want um so we have two davids on the
call today i'll be calling one
youngblood and then david g i guess the
in the other so let me know if
you do have nicknames or anything like
that
david youngblood
is the uh he's a senior sales and
partner manager at outplay
uh he does some work as an ambassador at
rev genius
and he likes to say that when he's not
prospecting selling or out playing he
can be found hanging out with his family
or creating in his workshop as a
woodcrafting artisan
now i know that you throw axes
right all this makes it so much more
clean yeah
david g i know that like you're the
director of sales and business
development at outplay i don't have as
detailed of a bio on you so maybe just
like what's something interesting about
you and then
i'm here to share you know i am a family
guy with three beautiful daughters and
four grandchildren that i am absolutely
crazy about
um they're my my number one passion
but my number two passion is this right
here helping folks double their reply
rates so i'm thrilled to be here thanks
for inviting me
yeah you bet and if i could comment
david uh g you look pretty good for a
grandpa man
thank you
thank you yes uh and i don't dye my beer
yet but it's coming soon i think
that just goes to show you you know i
come from old school sales right
and i've been doing this a long time and
uh the amazing thing today is to bring
all these best practices that i've been
doing for years to technology and the
combination is a real winner
yeah so let's
i mean let's get kind of straight to it
here in terms of doubling your reply
rates it's a pretty big promise you know
i think for a webinar but
in my experience especially with the
reps and the customers that i work with
it's so much more doable than people
actually think it is
and that might be a good question to
kind of get started and david g i'll
direct this to you
when it comes to cutting through the
noise
what what what does it take right now
especially email
it's a really just cluttered channel
what does it take to cut through the
noise these days with with email maybe
give some context too into
how many emails you guys see going
through the system and i'll play jim you
guys have a ton of data points here what
does it take to cut through the noise
these days yeah that's crazy uh great
question we are sending thousands of
emails just on our own team let alone we
have hundreds of customers also doing
the same
so we we learn right and that's really
the uh the main point of a b testing
right always be testing some people say
always be closing i say always be
testing so always work to improve
your email reply rates change that
subject line change that call to action
rate but that's not really why we're
here we're really here to talk about
personalization
and cutting through the noise i mean
look
i
i don't respond to cold call uh cold
emails not gonna lie i do answer cold
calls i'm not lying about that either so
if you call me you'll probably get me to
answer
but just uh have a good intro all right
but on cold emails i really don't answer
cold emails if it says hi david glickman
comma i'm reaching out because we have
many connections you know this kind of
stuff doesn't work maybe it did 10 years
ago but it certainly doesn't work today
i need to see that was it worth your
time did you learn about me do you know
who i am what i'm about or am i one in a
million that you're reaching out to
so for me what that means to cut through
the noise is to show that it was worth
my time to research you learn about you
and show you some value in the
communication right bring some real
value to the conversation
so youngblood
what is personalization then because
there's a lot of
you know i don't know if i want to call
it hype but especially on linkedin you
see a lot of like oh is it personalized
versus it relevant versus customize
there's all these terms you know kind of
thrown around so yeah blood how do you
how do you think of personalization what
is what does it mean to actually
personalize and even well
i i think to to personalize really kind
of goes back to
you know the cutting through the noise
how do you differentiate and you can
differentiate by your messaging right by
your approach and how you're
communicating to your target audience
we've all seen the the
the gimmicks the tricks and the chat
keys out there that that you know format
and
automate some of the communication and
correspondence force which also makes
our jobs easier however
uh what happens is when you're doing the
same thing everyone else is doing you
become
part of the noise again so
personalization is really about you know
taking that that extra step that extra
human moment to find out more about that
other human being
uh and then inject some of that
personalization into your communication
correspondence and outreach efforts
so for someone that's thinking
and let me know if you relate to this in
the chat too you know maybe just put me
too in the chat i relate with this uh
a lot of what i hear is that well
are you saying that i gotta customize
every email that i send out because
that's gonna take a long time i got a
lot of other stuff that i need to do so
how would you guys kind of respond you
know to that if someone's thinking about
weighing the pros and cons of the amount
of time investment that it's going to
take to do this
versus using something like outplay to
just batch and blast hundreds of emails
out to people how should someone
you know think of that what do you guys
will just kind of open that question up
for you too
it's a loaded question isn't it young
blood
package you know one of the first things
i do with a new client that we're
partnering with is get to know the kind
of client they are right who are they
selling to um how many
clients should they be reaching out to
on a daily weekly basis to hit their
targets and then we start to back into
how much of it should be personalized
and and quite frankly we do a whole
range of different types of sequences
and it starts with things like
situational sequences
where you know we learned something
about them all the way to a fully
templatized sequence
that you know everybody's getting the
same exact message and and there is a
reason for each of those i think and
everything in between
yeah i think to kind of to
piggyback on that a little bit it's
it's you know understanding how to
identify and see the patterns uh in your
outreach efforts right in your target
audience and your messaging you know
understanding that you need a good
baseline of a variety of sequence
templates to start from um making sure
that you're leveraging triggers and
automations and i think one of the
biggest
mistakes people tend to make is
understanding when and when not to
automate right it's not about automating
everything
if you do automate everything you tend
to lose some of that personalization
so it's not really personalization at
scale just because you put a first name
in the subject line so that's not called
personalization
so
then also maintaining that balance right
understanding that over personalization
isn't going to
necessarily lead to better results so
you got to find the right line of
personalization that's right for you and
your target audience and the people
you're speaking to
okay there's so much to unpack here i
love what's going on in the chat so far
so you guys
miank and emily and dele and craig we
see you in the chat it's not easy to
personalize
yeah it's not easy to personalize um
before we really get into the weeds here
what we're gonna do everyone here in a
second is we're gonna go through
different types of sequences and
these guys have some examples they're
gonna show us too of like what this
looks like in action
and before we do that what i to do is
just like if you have specific questions
if you could use the q a button
so at the bottom of zoom there click q a
that'll help us filter out the questions
from the chat so that i don't miss any
of them so if you have questions
we want to help you answer them put it
into the q a button there and zoom and
we'll get to you so let's just like
rewind a bit here young blood he said a
bunch of things there
pattern detection
because i think that people think about
personalization
and it's like okay i gotta completely
write something from scratch for this
person every single time
and you mentioned pattern detection can
you unpack that a little bit more what
do you mean by looking for patterns and
the people that we're reaching out to
yeah so um patterns as it pertains to
prospecting
a lot of it is
you know the the themes of things that
we know like your icp right who's your
target audience radio customer profile
and your adjustable market so you know
that the look and feel of companies and
problems that you tend to solve for
you can find those common threads
and use that as a as a piece or part of
the template right and same for
targeting titles and roles and
responsibility owners so you can tailor
entitle rest messaging to cater and
tailor to select egos or roles and and
responsibility types right so those
supplemental bullets and your your
messaging might be
tailored or catered specifically to a
role of a cxo versus a cto versus a you
know a copy of operations etc
yes okay i think one thing that could
help us in the chat you guys is if you
could share what are some job titles
of people that you sell to
hit us up in the chat what are some job
titles of the people that you sell to
that'll help us provide some context
actually for you today so what i'm
hearing from youngblood there is that
and i see something very similar to
where what are the patterns across the
different persona so i think
segmentation is actually
like before you even write an email
create a template run a sequence make a
phone call what i'm hearing is that
segmentation is really important so how
do you guys uh
david g if we could focus on you for a
second when you think of segmentation
how do you think about like what are
some typical patterns that either you
guys use or some of your customers to
use like how do they segment stuff and
this is great in the chat you guys keep
it coming um how do you guys segment how
do you think about segmentation yeah
definitely we see a lot of folks that
are segmenting by title right ceos cfos
they usually need different messaging
than you know that that front end user
or even that front line manager so uh
we're you know every every i think
customer that we have has different
indications different clues that they're
looking for you know sometimes it's just
on a persona based and there are tools
that help you uh you know look at uh
discover people's personas as well so
there's lots of different ways buy
vertical right you can separate your
audience by what type of business
they're at and how they sell now at
outplay
we've decided to go after people we look
for six or seven really specific things
so
we're not just going out there you know
randomly researching we've asked our
team to look for these situations where
it's a good indication
that the timing might be right
and then we have sequences written for
those situations so we call these no uh
no uh surprise here situational
sequences right because they can be
templatized they can be pre-written
and you can drop these folks into the
sequences and it'll feel personalized
right so you can have a cfo sequence
that it feels written just to him right
that message is is written just for the
cfo um but you can also find people um
you know that are using a competitor's
tool that's a great one that we utilize
with very specific messaging on that
here i want to share
i'm just taking some notes on something
right now i think that actually might um
that might help here and i shared the
wrong thing
here we go
so if we could run through
what i want to do is help kind of
brainstorm
for the uh the folks at home here like
different kinds of situations
so basically with pattern detection we
can segment by title by vertical
um you also said that there's some other
ways that we can think about segmenting
two based on if the timing is good
can you unpack that a little bit more i
want to help everyone here that's
watching this think a little bit deeper
than the title and vertical because you
dropped some some good stuff there so
what are some other situational type of
things that might come up
yeah absolutely timing wise you know we
see some real patterns around when is
the right time for this type of
organization to buy our tool for
instance right and we've found a couple
of patterns here
one of them is if you're a new sales
leader if you're new to that leading
role right usually you want to come in
you want to find the gaps you want to
fix the tools and get the team pumped up
and get ready to scale so we
specifically are looking for people that
are new to the sales leader role that's
a great time to hit on them and we've
got some very specific messaging just
for that audience
and it's not just congrats on the new
role because then the message goes into
you know why the timing is right why we
have value right now for you right
but there are other timings too um you
know if you if you just raise money
that's one of the perfect times right
got money to burn just got that series a
series b
we know what that's about so uh you're
out there looking for new tools it's
time to scale and the timing is right to
find the right st tech stack
so we've you know as a team as an
organization in our playbook
we've
sketched out these specific things that
we want our team to go after and they're
all business related right we can all
tie it to what we're adding value for
how we're selling
so it's not so random and it doesn't
take a lot of time because our team
knows exactly what to look for but our
clients are all different some of them
use facebook to find when the timing is
right some of them are using tools like
built with on their website to find out
when the timing is right
doing technographic searches you know
there's tons of great tools today that
are giving you those insights but it's
up to your organization to
identify it and make it clear to your
team so that it's easy and efficient
yeah
youngblood what about you are you seeing
anything else like we saw jacob threw
into the chat too new product facility
service like any signs of expansion i
think is is really good but young blood
any any other product
yeah my brain kind of goes to like
pharma graphics or fundamentals on on
you know due diligence and research on a
target account right as a prospector i'm
going to go research an account and or
prospects and and try and find these
circumstantial um you know event related
uh timing indicators but the other the
other approach to this as far as
understanding and finding the right
timing um from a from an automation
perspective is making sure and this is
more advanced but making sure that your
um you know your dispositions and
utilization of your your tech stack and
process uh is such that you're able to
capture kind of the last
uh gone cold or dark silent date and
you're able to do something called
you know what's referred to as coming as
account based prospecting right we're
able to recycle and nurture accounts or
re reinvigorate accounts that maybe went
dark or silent after a defined period of
time so you can create automations and
tools you know like i'll play to
say okay
and create a task in three months follow
up and add this account back to a you
know a good night green net new account
right so things like that
yeah so kind of like reworking
old accounts too i think that's a hugely
underrated thing because especially when
you start to move into mid market and
enterprise where the deal size is much
bigger and there's much more research
involved right
and you might have spent an hour on the
enterprise level just doing account
research and that that doesn't have to
all go to waste correct you know a lot
of those things are still going to apply
let me stop sharing
this
great comment from oh sorry great
comment from sree
yeah teams expanding is another great
one we use team growth thanks for adding
that to the white board that's great
i'd love to hear
and again if we kind of zoom out a
little bit the reason why we want to
like layer down into pattern detection
is that i don't know what you guys see
most of sequencing
i see one of two situations usually with
a wrapper company is they have one
sequence where they put all the personas
in
so everyone gets the same sequence or
they'll have a sequence separated out by
persona
and they don't have any other sequences
besides that
yeah the last thing added emily was
reworking old accounts
so the thing that i see
like there's like you should have like a
dozen
dozen and a half sequences because
you find timing in situations that are
relevant enough to where every time i
find someone that's in a new role within
the 12 months i have this go-to sequence
that like does 99 of the work for me
already because i've already thought
about how to message these people
that's the point i just want to like
just nail there with you guys and be a
bit of a dead horse over is that like
you're doing a lot of this work in
advance so that you don't have to do it
every time
it comes up right is that kind of the
point here and like looking at those
patterns
yeah time efficiency right always be
testing always be improving
increase your efficiency
yeah and it doesn't matter if you're
going after you know a high volume of
accounts or you want to really hyper
personalize a lower volume of accounts
let's face it we want to spend less time
sending emails more time closing deals
building our network so anything that we
can do to
optimize this process is critical that's
what sales engagement is all about
automating it making it easy you know
the very first thing
that our team does and we've got
brilliant sdrs likes 31 there thank you
for your notes we've got brilliant sdrs
that have helped to really perfect some
great processes and you know sap tools
are all great i saw somebody ask you
know can we succeed without acp and all
that other stuff you know what scp is
just here to make your world a lot
easier right
but uh at the same time the very first
thing that we do and you can do this
manually or with sap is we research day
one first thing we do research and we're
looking for those specific points and
we'll just make a note of that point
whether you put it in your sap like
outplay or if you're putting it in your
spreadsheet when i call you jason i want
to be able to have a relevant
conversation with you right
i want to remember
what i researched two weeks ago because
it's taken me this long to finally get
you on the phone i want to include those
points in the emails coming up so we do
the heavy lifting on day one do the
research take good notes use the
advantages that your database your crm
sap has to offer to resurface that
information right when you need it to
further personalize the connection
request the phone call the email
everything text messaging chats
yeah i want to double click on that too
because that's another thing
that i see a lot too where people do the
same research over and over and over
again oh yeah do the research one time
save your notes in that sales engagement
tool or your crm or a spreadsheet
whatever you're using
i don't want to have to redo account
research put it all into one place
before we get to kind of the some of the
examples and stuff that you guys are
going to show
can you guys let us know in the chat
what is one situation that you find a
lot of your prospects are in
that you could create a more repeatable
sequence around and then we'll get into
some examples of how long the sequence
should be how many touches you guys are
asking some great questions there but
let me know in the chat based on what
you've heard so far what is one pattern
that's very common that you see
prospects in that you could create a
sequence for after this webinar
yeah jim says acquisitions
yeah issues michael says there's so many
and you know
everybody's business is going to be
different i would love to just give you
a silver bullet right here but i don't
know if that's possible i know we've got
multiple bullets it takes um you know
for targeting different groups of
audiences i'm sure all these folks do
yeah look they've all got great ideas
absolutely
yeah these are great so think about the
patterns that you detect and again it's
it's do the work one time
create the sequence so you don't have to
recreate this over and over again
yeah appointment setting account reviews
awesome
okay um
why don't we get into some of the
examples and just to kind of preface
this
you guys
you guys look at sequences in a very
different way
than i've seen other people talk about
it it's not just a sequence there are
different types of sequences and you
sort of alluded to this earlier
so can you kind of give us the 10 000
foot view of how you guys look at
sequences and the different types of sq
outbound sequences that we should have
yeah good go ahead dg
so you know we definitely use a variety
of sequences and you know i've mentioned
testing nyb did
as well
because it's so important to always be
testing and trying new things seeing
what can work there isn't a silver
bullet right everybody's business is
different
um but for us we found that there are
several kind of standard type of
sequences that we build and as we
partner with new customers you know we
learn about your business so that we
understand you know how you sell and why
you sell that way so that we can help
you develop these same types of
sequences because they're not going to
be exactly the same as ours but you will
be able to draw the connection right the
similarities so um you know we talked
briefly about a situational type
sequence right so this is a
sequence where you can add you know
thousands of prospects in the same
situation right and they all feel like
they're getting that personalized
message and you know we we talked about
many of them and a lot of you are using
them which is great to see
and this is one way that we help our
customers to expand the way that they're
thinking about sequences is by use case
by the value that you bring to this
group of customer right and so the value
that we bring to someone for instance
hiring a sales team right hey our tool
is perfect for helping your new folks
ramp up quickly and start booking
meetings in days and not weeks right so
it's situational it's personal it's
based on research
and i can use it in the email the phone
call the connection request a text
message and all of that right so there's
a great example of situational sequences
but you know the opposite end of that is
what i call a high personalization
sequence
and you know this is where we're going
to take a little bit more time slow it
down and you know usually this is for up
market accounts so getting higher
account values uh contract values
and we want to spend more time
personalizing and learn more about you
and we have a sequence called this high
personal it's literally called high
personalization and uh whenever we see
at that high value target we drop them
in there and it's literally our best
outbound cold sequence
and it just expands on what we talked
about right do that research up front
take a note of three things that we can
learn about you
and resurface those points in the
communication all three and it just
makes it more powerful more value to add
better messaging and much better uh
reply rates that i'll share with you all
um and then you know we also do some
sequences one-on-one you know uh
for instance you know we might just find
somebody on linkedin and we want to drop
them into a sequence and and do the
research another time right so tomorrow
uh when i'm working my sequences up pops
this task to research uh jason bay and
i'm going to go to your linkedin account
and i'm going to research you and i'm
going to make some points and i'm just
going to personally write an email to
you at that time and you know that first
email is ever important but if you can
also begin to personalize the third
email and sprinkle that in now you're
really winning now you're gonna see a
much improved
uh reply rates i'm curious if you guys
can add uh what kind of reply rates you
think are common
in your sequences yeah
yeah let us know in the chat what kind
of reply rates do you typically see and
then we'll kind of pull back the curtain
young blood do you have some examples
ready
that we can look at here in a second
of of these types of various sequences
yeah
yep
okay
so we're seeing five to ten percent john
says low
what's going on john
uh if you want to i can't
yeah go ahead
one three two to eight
someone yeah percent
two day
what 14
wow that's a nice one yeah that's as
high as a cold outbound sequence can get
right yeah
nice
yeah whenever you guys are ready let's
let's take a look at some examples all
right i'm going to share some sequences
with you and look at really some of the
results that we're seeing across these
sequences
let me share
my screen here
so
here are some of my favorite sequences
and you can see they have some crazy
high reply rates as well
um and i'll i'll explain a couple of
these to you right
this is actually one of those
situational sequences down here right
all these companies we found them on
crunchbase they just got their series a
it's easy to write a message
all right hey jason i've been following
you on crunchbase congrats on getting
your series a i'm curious is it time to
beef up the tech stack and scale the
sales team right it probably is so
timing right there you go
um and look at that 11
very consistent and it's one of our top
sequences
um and then we have this well i
mentioned this also high personalization
somebody said they were getting 14
congrats because this is our best
outbound cold sequence also at 14 reply
rate right and that's where we're
literally writing three things about
each prospect that goes into that
sequence and sprinkling the information
throughout the phone call the email and
all that
um and you know sure we do a
technographic search on competitors you
know i want to see
what you're using and i can talk to you
about the differences between us and
them that's always fun no none of you
in the audience that have competitors
right no you don't know anything about
that
so uh but then we have you know some
some special sequences also i call them
tier two sequences or um uh dynamic
sequences
these are sequences that yeah you may
start over here where you recently got
funded so we started reaching out to you
that way um but then maybe you booked a
meeting with us we hope right
and the system will actually move you
automatically into a new sequence called
meeting booked and you can do this
manually on your own you can you know
just manually send out emails with
different templates but i think
recognizing where they are in their
buyer's journey right are they engaged
with you are they even opening your
emails um is the timing right you know
these are things to constantly revisit
um so meeting booked is a great sequence
because it kicks off uh an event for the
ae right so maybe we'll
connect with him on linkedin or whatever
um but it's also doing maybe a nurture
campaign to the prospect until that
meeting actually happens
now heaven forbid somebody missed a
meeting nobody ever misses a meeting on
on you all i know that that's just me
but uh you know we have a way of
managing these missed meetings and our
system can actually move the prospect
into a new sequence called missed
meeting and you know it's all about hey
i know
it happens let's get back on the call
here's a little value add to remind you
of why we wanted to meet in the first
place and that personalization again and
good to go and and look at that reply
rate 25
and actually we wind up booking half of
our missed meetings again so it works
out pretty well
uh but this is uh
one of my favorites right here okay
for open sequences so outplay is always
helping you to identify the low-hanging
fruit and there are lots of tools that
can help you do this
we focus on pointing out not just when
somebody opens the email a bunch of
times or clicks on something or or even
visits your website but we also will
triggle trigger an alert for the sales
rep so yeah data's great but hey sales
rep they just visited our website let's
call them right that's actionable and
that's a hot lead
so there you go
look at me look at that 24
reply rate
on that for open sequence it's
ridiculous it's crazy it's crazy
are we able to
look at any of these uh closer to just
like people are wanting to know the
number of touches in the sequence or an
example of what stuff might looks like
are you guys able to do that at all
so typically a sequence is you know over
three over three weeks
and we're doing about five to six emails
in that period
and you know five phone calls because
we're a phone call shot we like to make
a lot of phone calls we book about half
of our meetings by phone by the way and
uh you know a tool like like outplay
there's lots of dollars out there that
can just help you move from one call to
the next will help you hit your target
for calls um and then we're also you
know including linkedin so we're doing
at least three linkedin steps to
research and learn about you to do a
connection request and and some follow
up as well yeah let's let's take a look
into this high personalization sequence
so the very first step is just like i
mentioned right it's that research step
we ask all of our sdrs the very first
thing you want to do with a high value
target is make a note of three points of
three points of personalization
right so and store that information so
we can resurface it and we even give our
team examples to make it really easy to
uh you know click that those creative
juices into high gear
and we do this on day one it's a
critical step it's a priority for our
team because you know if you don't build
the pipe you're not going to close deals
every day
we have to add to the pipe that's
critical all right
um but then the second step and you can
see where we do a b testing all day some
people say you know always be closing
not me i i said this earlier i know i
say always
be testing always be testing and look at
we're able to drive you know big
improvements in emails in reply rates
and then we're sprinkling you know these
custom
these fields here that are storing that
personalized information right so what i
learned about you here's a quick short
three to five word uh subject line
here it is in the sentence you know i
love that post you shared about new
sales you know it from a virtual world
right um i shared it with my team
and then value right
but also in the phone call
can we go back real quick because you
mentioned some things around
personalization
and i just want to point out here that
the subject line is personalized
yeah absolutely not not just like a
first-name merger
something else in there to personalize
it can you talk about why you do that
right i mean look when you get an email
where are you usually
on your phone
all right
so the subject line is got to help you
stand out
and you can get really cute and creative
and use emoticons and listen a lot of
those things work um this is the way
that we do it we do it through
personalization by starting with why we
should be talking what did i learn about
you and of course you know the first
name
i you know that's kind of
personalization right
um it's kind of expected these days but
trust me when i tell you that um what
we've seen is that consistently subject
lines with first names and that have
three to five words in it
will outperform that's not for everybody
though so always test try it on your own
and hopefully you have a tool like
outplay that lets you do a quick a b
test and then measure the difference in
results
yeah i think that's so important that
level of personalization that you're
talking about with the subject line i
just have to again double click on that
because that's the
most people you know actually why don't
we ask this question too what is a
typical open rate for you guys if you
could drop it into the chat
a lot of you guys shared reply rates
some of you shared open rates what's a
typical open rate
because in in my experience a lot of
teams are getting like 20 to 30 open
rates
and it's just like
almost three quarters of your emails are
not even being looked at
because the first line of the email is
not great and the subject line you know
it's not customized
but yeah we have 10 percent
at 30 percent
yeah 20 to 60
yeah that's a great starting point you
know it's it's okay to start at 20
but you have to always be working
towards improving it and it really only
takes weeks
actually you know i'll share another
best practice with you because i see
this go wrong often a lot of
customers that we work with initially
have uh you know way too many ideas of
how many sequences they're going to have
they've got a team of maybe you know 10
sales reps and they all want to go out
and write you know three or four
sequences on their own
but you can imagine how hard it is to
learn
right from that data what worked why did
it work and to whom did it work when
you're reaching out to them um right so
we focus on team sequences team
templates where we can have you know the
team focus on
fewer sequences at a time to get more
data in so that we can learn quickly
because you know let's face it a sample
size of 10 20 there's zero learning i
hope all of you don't learn anything
from a sample size of 10 or 20. i look
for a sample size of minimum 50 looking
for 200 though really to make it solid i
like a sample size of 200
but at the same time you know our team
we're a group of smart ambitious
passionate folks and we like to spread
our wings and be creative so you know we
do take turns on writing sequences and
rewriting sequences and improving them
and it allows the team to all get
involved and participate in in the
creative side of things but also to work
as a team with a consistent
message
so that's great i get we got a couple
questions in the q a i think that are
relevant to what we're talking about
right now
um
okay indeca asks is all personalization
business related
no
short answer easy answer no yes
well why because some people are afraid
of
i think being unprofessional don't get
creepy right
read the room find the line don't be a
creepy stalker right don't be like hey i
hope you had a good time at tgi fridays
on friday with your your friend from
college like that's creepy
right
but
on the other hand it's like hey you know
saw that you were you know volunteering
some time
at habitat for humanity that's really
freaking awesome right like
right but then stop right there yeah
don't sell exactly that is not the time
to pitch okay is it selling selling
isn't prospecting so don't go to the
sales mode just use the opener build the
rapport right use the personalization
and get the meeting
have a conversation folks right build
build that connection
is a good rule of thumb
that if they talk about it on linkedin
or share it on linkedin it's probably
okay to reference
yeah
absolutely
public for a reason so there you go
indica um and don't fake it right like
if you're gonna i'm sorry i was gonna
say if you're going to talk about
somebody's mascot have a reason for
talking about the message that's also
true
right you know did you go to that high
school did you have to at least have the
same mascot i become a draw connection
don't be random yeah be genuine for sure
okay jim's got a quick question too jim
dwyer with that first email do y'all
remove html so that doesn't get caught
in a spam filter and maybe just kind of
for some people thinking about should i
include a logo or a picture or whatever
that kind of thing
um what do you think about jim's
question here
no i think that that's a great question
absolutely and you notice that we don't
have any links
no pictures
no nothing
in this email that's that's a great
point and i'm sure a lot of folks would
like to hear
hear that you know the first email the
point is really to get through their
spam filter and to start to build some
familiarity so that they open your email
they see it but they don't they're not
offended by it right
and therefore you know that second email
they're gonna be a little bit more open
to it right another interesting point in
the subject line another reason for them
to open your email and maybe uh the next
time your email is uh gonna share some
uh some thought leadership and you know
back to a little bit of
based messaging that we touched on
earlier
this is kind of how i think about email
sequences
you know personas are really based on
a lot of the speed at which they buy
right what kind of touchy feely what
kind of information do they need to get
before they buy from you um you know
what kind of analysis do they like to do
before they buy
so a sequence can actually cover a lot
of different personas right the first
email can be for that fast-acting
persona that's going to jump in and
wants to i'm a curious guy i mean and
that's kind of me um i'm curious about
technology if you send me a personalized
email that's relevant i'm curious i'm
going to probably take a look
and then there are folks like probably
youngblood here that like to
uh email and sorry and email and uh
you know
learn learn get some back and forth
going get some thought leadership going
and do some analysis on their own right
so each email that you write in a
sequence can actually cover one of those
personas
so am i right in assuming here in this
first email you don't even have an email
signature in there
we do put an email signature in there
yes it's inserted by the tool though
so uh picture at the end but it's you're
not in putting in a lot of media or
links or anything like that
so signatures are viewed differently
than content
so it's it is okay to have a link back
to your website and that sort of thing
on that initial email
got it and i ask because email
deliverability is such an issue these
days
where people's emails are just not going
through so
um great question yeah keep keep rolling
don't want to interrupt your flow here
there's just some questions coming up i
think that we're all right hit me up i'm
going to focus on this screen you let me
know if there's any more good questions
thanks for that great question
um now you know all all about moving
prospects along their journey right to
get their timing right and there are
several things that outplay does you
know besides knowing when you booked a
meeting knowing when you missed a
meeting right knowing when you opened
for emails but now check this out
how about
knowing when people visit your website
right and this is great information and
a lot of marketing tools have this but
this is special this is called
smart chat and magic chat and this is
all about
you know again making it actionable it's
great to know when people visit your
website but these folks are all in a
sequence right so now we're able to see
exactly what their title is
what pages they visited but most
importantly
the sales rep gets an email alert
telling them hey hot lead alert jump on
it right
so
this is really how we are driving such
crazy numbers is by paying attention to
those quiet signals you know that aren't
so obvious
but um can mean a world of difference
24 reply rate difference
yeah
chat is it's something honestly i
haven't really explored using much
um
yeah chat's something else right
can you guys talk about this is not the
and i won't talk about any of the
companies specifically that have these
kind of chat tools just not throw them
under the bus but this is not a
you know when you go to certain websites
you get that annoying pop-up and it's
like a chat bot and you're not actually
talking to a person
um what you guys are doing is
like you're able to know if that person
is coming to the site
and if they're in an outbound sequence
right
absolutely you talk to the person
through chat because this is a really
really sort of clever way to talk to
people
where you've captured their attention i
think that's the hardest thing is
getting a conversation started with a
person when you have their attention for
a few seconds
in chat it just feels more like a
conversation than email does
you know it feels like i'm texting
someone and can have some back and forth
or i'm dming someone in linkedin
versus email it's just so asynchronous
you know so do you have any tips for
chat like
what would you want to say to someone
when they hop on your
when they hop on the site and and uh
like what would you say to start a chat
with them what what what might some of
the stuff sound like
i mean really is the same as your your
voice conversations right
it's a live dialogue it's not a
synchronous like email or as
asynchronous as email it is a little bit
i guess um
but you know just be real be human be
genuine
um personalized
one of the biggest things to take away
from live chat via this functionality
set is that your prospect was looking at
your prospecting email
click the link to go to your website to
do more research on your solution
and that's how they came across your
chat so like timing
urgency interest that couldn't be more
relevant than to engage with them with
chat because they're there because they
were reading your prospecting email
right so
it's it's definitely a great great tool
and relevant time to engage in an open
and receptive conversation with your
prospect rather than a you know a
distant and
leave me alone approach
and that's a hot lead
like if i was prospecting to one of you
two and you hopped on to
blissfulprospecting.com would i say hey
david did you get the email that i sent
you i wouldn't even have to ask that hey
glad you got the email did you have any
questions on it oh you're sure
okay
absolutely
that's right that's right thanks for
checking it out that's right
yeah and then and then
that kind of stuff no there's no need be
transparent
yeah i think today kind of i mean we all
kind of expect to be remarketed to and
to be tracked on the websites we visit
it's kind of an expectation these days
but uh you know yeah reach out to them
you it's just another way to extend the
conversation they are familiar with your
name because you've been emailing and
calling them in linkedin connecting with
them they uh they got your email they
clicked on your email they visited our
website that's why they pop up on the
chat here and now we can just extend the
conversation
and you know this is again it's that low
hanging fruit it's a hot hot lead they
saw the subject line they opened it they
saw the content they clicked now they're
on your website let's see if we can
strike up conversation but to bring up
that personalization again is critical
like you know it could be as simple as
hey jason thanks for checking out the
email i sent over and i see that you're
growing your sales team are you looking
for new tools to help your team book new
meetings book more meetings right so
relevant conversation
bring in that personalization
and continue the conversation onto chat
yeah
so okay just because we've got about 10
minutes left and i want to make sure to
save some time for q a one thing i want
to make sure that you guys talk about
too is
and correct me if i'm wrong you guys
call it dynamic sequencing where you're
kind of personalizing the
experience that the prospect has based
on how they interact
so in other words
yeah what you're seeing a lot of success
with is that if a prospect gets
four or five emails from you
and the first couple they're opening up
a lot and looking at it even if they're
not responding they're gonna now
be treated very differently from someone
that doesn't open anything that you send
them and i and i call this you looking
for the hand raisers following the
engagement
i think this is the future of outbound
is being able to really prioritize who's
just willing to engage with a cold email
or a cold call or a linkedin message you
know so can you guys tell us a little
bit more about why that's so important
and we do that with everything not just
outbound we do the same thing with
inbound right we get hundreds of people
each month that are you know checking us
out and maybe signing up for a trial or
downloading an ebook or visiting a
webinar right so now what
now what what do we do well now we've
got a big group of people that seem like
they're the right target audience right
and we actually do make sure you are by
the way before we reach out to you and
if there's a need right and based on
that need now we can go and we can do it
confidently
yeah
i love that and then even choosing to
call people too that engage with your
emails i think is a big thing too
it's
oh it
this sounds very simple in theory but
i i think that if you one if you don't
have the right tool to set it up that
can be difficult
but spending the upfront time
to like create some of this stuff and
create the system like you do that one
time and it becomes pretty simple to
maintain but it does take a little bit
of work you know i think is the big
thing to put this stuff together um
you guys mind if we get to a couple
questions yeah
and then we could talk about outplay a
little bit more um okay
all right
should we get to the list are we
some good ones in here yeah yeah
yeah patrick asked
he's got a couple in there but he said
any recommendation on how many people
from a specific company you should
address at the same time how do you guys
yeah so uh there's a couple
caveats to that right exceptions which
is it it depends on your target audience
your
you know where you're going to market
and what your solution is and who gets
the value out of the solution versus who
gets makes the decisions on your
solution so you really need to do the
due diligence to make sure that you
understand who you're going after and
why but when you do
as a general rule of thumb to kind of
blanket rule up for the audience here
and the kids at home
three to five key players per account is
is really the kind of the
the big broad breaststroke best practice
right three to five you want to build
consensus across a buying committee if
you're an sdr or bdr supporting a sales
counterpart for example every everything
you do to canvas that account canvas
prospects in the account builds brand
equity and brand awareness for your
organization so that whether they they
book a meeting with you today or if you
follow up in three months because you
recycle the account they're going to
recognize that brand or your name a
little bit more so you really want to
want to do account penetration account
based prospecting and canvas that
account
and you got a test right you got a test
too try a new role um try a different
title and see if they can help influence
the deal you know i think uh there's a
couple of things that i consider when
looking at how many people are getting
involved in the sale
um
first of all is how easy is it to
identify the exact decision makers right
in some cases you can know and in some
especially with our marketing customers
marketing is so broad you never know
who's the
you know instagram social media manager
that handles influencers right so that
you can it's you're going to have to
kind of round up the cats and
reach out to them but the great thing is
that sales people like to help other
sales people and if you do it right and
you ask nicely you're going to get
referrals into the right people
so the more valuable the account and
usually that goes along with larger not
always but usually um you know to me
means more people
involved in the decision-making process
and that also means more people that i
want to you know start to build that
familiarity with and bring in to uh
to help book that first meeting
yeah and the other two things i would
add to that is never be afraid to go top
down
um
right just because and referrals are
obviously gold and we all know that but
if you start up in an org and you have a
relatively clear value prop that's easy
to determine all right where to point
you then you can more easily enable your
prospects and the leadership of your
prospects to better refer you to the
right person and then getting a referral
from imperial superior just increases
your conversion uh booking rate to touch
points so it's just doing it smarter and
better
yes
love that
i wanna
make sure that we get a chance to just
talk about outplay real quick we uh
i'm gonna drop a link into here if
you're have been watching this and
you're thinking hey it'd be kind of nice
to have a tool to do this especially
with the chat something that integrates
with salesforce hubspot that sort of
stuff
we did put together a pretty cool black
friday deal for you there if you visit
that link
in the chat
you get 20 off if you sign up for before
black friday but i'm a huge fan of
outplays simply because
it's like you guys make it very easy to
do these things
and there's some functionality in there
that doesn't quite
that isn't quite very easy to do as a
rep let's put it that way but um check
out that link if you're interested if
you're running a team of people and you
want to check it out or your rep um is
there anything else that you guys want
to mention about outplay i mean this has
been a really informative webinar and i
just want to let the folks know if they
need a tool
that outplays a really good one to check
out is there anything else that you guys
want to make yeah i would just encourage
those of you out there even if you don't
necessarily need or want the tool you
know like we're we're here we're in the
community we're in the space we're
solving the same problems facing them
every day so you know hit us up on on
linkedin hit us up uh wherever uh and
happy to have a conversation just a
casual chat about you know the
challenges you're facing and maybe kind
of brainstorm through some of the some
of the problems that you have whether or
not you get the tool right
uh we're all in this together so
students right we're all learning
together we learn from you at the same
time it's it's a great win-win
and and also if you know what to decide
if you uh check out this logo behind us
it's our new virtual summit accelerate
so if you want to
uh check out our first annual
virtual conference called accelerate
jason's gonna be there of course he'll
be speaking thank you very much jason as
well as some other folks from uh quota
path ceo aj bruno and people from chili
piper both their ceo and cxo will be on
sendoso is going to be there chili piper
lots of great speakers a lot of great
conversations and learning opportunities
so i hope we see you all there virtual
summit december 14th we'll put a link up
and 15th oh there it's already there
thank you lorraine
after make sure to check it out tons of
great information
um you guys this was this is a lot of
fun i appreciate it it was yes spending
some time with us
and a lot of takeaways here i love how
you know specific you guys are with like
hey how do we find patterns and then
create sequences and really kind of give
prospects a more
you know customer centric experience
through the prospecting process versus
just treating them like they're a name
on a list
so just love the work you guys are doing
appreciate you coming on and spending an
hour for everyone else too uh love the
engagement today hopefully you got some
good takeaways definitely make sure to
check out outplay and uh the accelerate
event too it's it's the accelerated
events free you're gonna have a ton of
great content there
and uh we're really gonna crush it for
you guys so thank you everyone
there's more questions i wanna answer
more questions i know
what are we doing about those well okay
well how about uh how about this um
at the end of this what we could do
is if you guys want to when i send out
the replay reply if you didn't get your
question answered what we could do is i
could let you to uh no i could compile
them onto a google doc and we could
maybe record a short vidyard or drift
video or something and help answer some
people's questions yeah and your answer
live in response in the
chat or comments on your linkedin post
sharing this video
as well
i'm going to also share my email address
in here
if anybody wants to reach out directly
please please do
alrighty everyone
we'll see you later all right bye
everybody thanks chase
thanks david